It’s been a few nights since Khoijsteh's lover Miemun left her alone to go on his voyage.
Khoijsteh was devastated but started taking interest in the new prince who had moved in next door.
This night Khoijsteh is looking outside the window, longing for this new prince. She then finally
decides that she should go to him. She walks up to the parrot , that Miemun had bought before he left, to ask for leave.
However, looking at the parrot sitting in his cage, deep in thought, she asks, “Why are you so pensive?”
The Parrot suddenly looks up to her and exclaims, “For you, my lady! Because I know not what
kind of lover yours is. Whether he will be true to you or act like King Kamrew’s parrot”
Khoijsteh, now intrigued by the parrot’s words, asks, “What is the nature of this story of King
Kamrew’s Parrot?”
The parrot delves into the story straight away.
He starts, “Once there was a fowler who wanted to capture a parrot and it’s young; perched up
on a beautiful tall tree with pink flowers, close to the river bank. So, the fowler climbed up this tall tree and threw his net
over the nest of the parrot and its young, imprisoning them.
The parrot was scared but acted quickly. He told it’s young to act as if they were dead, so that the
fowler throws them out of the net.
And when they’re thrown out, the parrot instructs them to fly
away. The parrot told the nestlings not to worry about him, because he would find a way back
home soon, somehow. The little birds did as they were told.
Just as the parrot had predicted the fowler threw the nestlings away. As soon as the young birds were out of the net they flew right
away into the sky, out of the fowlers reach.
Realizing what just happened, the fowler was furious. In his rage, the fowler was about to dash
the parrot to the ground.
The parrot abruptly stops the fowler and says, ‘I can acquire you many
riches. I’m a physician, do not kill me.’
Hearing this the fowler was stopped in his tracks,
suddenly he got an idea and was delighted. He put the parrot in a cage and took him to his king.
King Kamrew.
This king was suffering from a grievous disease and no one could find a cure.
Thus, the fowler thought by giving him this physician parrot he could ask the King for a lot of
gold. And he was right! The king gave the fowler 10 thousand Dinar for the parrot.
The parrot soon started treating the King. After the King’s disorder was half cured, the parrot
tells him, ‘I can only cure you fully if I get out of this cage and am able to use my abilities
completely.’
The King believing him opens the door of the cage. As soon as the king does so the parrot flies
away home. The king was left with his disease and the parrot never returns.” The parrot finishes.
After the parrot ends his story, he says to khojisteh “My lady, this is what I’m scared of. Will
your lover be loyal or be like king Kamrew’s parrot?
Trust your heart but place no resilience in him until you have tried him.”